CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

If you would like to contribute code to this project, please follow these pull request guidelines:

0. (Optional but encouraged) Find at least one maintainer interested in your PR.
1. Fork the project.
2. Create a branch specifically for the feature you are contributing.
3. (Optional but encouraged) Rebase your branch as needed. Please see quick reference if you are new to git.
4. After you are happy with your work, please make sure to submit a Pull Request from the feature branch. You are heavily discouraged from making pull requests from your main branch, because we may not be able to get to your PR before you make new changes to your PR.

Character PR checklist:

- [ ] New character package
- [ ] Config in character package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Character key
- [ ] Shortcuts for character key
- [ ] Add Character package to imports
- [ ] Character talent stats
- [ ] Character curve
- [ ] Normal Attack
- [ ] Skill
- [ ] Burst
- [ ] A1
- [ ] A4
- [ ] C0
- [ ] C1
- [ ] C2
- [ ] C3
- [ ] C4
- [ ] C5
- [ ] C6
- [ ] Other necessary talents (custom dash/jump, low/high plunge, ...)
- [ ] Hitlag
- [ ] ICD
- [ ] StrikeType
- [ ] Hitboxes
- [ ] Attack durability
- [ ] Particles
- [ ] Frames
- [ ] Update documentation

Weapon PR checklist:

- [ ] New weapon package
- [ ] Config in weapon package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Weapon key
- [ ] Shortcuts for weapon key
- [ ] Add weapon package to imports
- [ ] Weapon curve
- [ ] Weapon passive (might include an attack)
- [ ] Update documentation

Artifact PR checklist:

- [ ] New artifact package
- [ ] Config in artifacts package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Artifact key
- [ ] Shortcuts for artifact key
- [ ] Add artifact package to imports
- [ ] 2pc
- [ ] 4pc
- [ ] Update documentation

Please try to be explicit about what is complete or incomplete.

Items may be omitted when irrelevant.

<details><summary>Click to expand copy-paste friendly version</summary>
  
```
Character PR checklist:

- [ ] New character package
- [ ] Config in character package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Character key
- [ ] Shortcuts for character key
- [ ] Add Character package to imports
- [ ] Character talent stats
- [ ] Character curve
- [ ] Normal Attack
- [ ] Charge Attack / Aimed Shot
- [ ] Skill
- [ ] Burst 
- [ ] A1
- [ ] A4
- [ ] C0
- [ ] C1
- [ ] C2
- [ ] C3
- [ ] C4
- [ ] C5
- [ ] C6
- [ ] Other necessary talents (custom dash/jump, low/high plunge, ...)
- [ ] Hitlag
- [ ] ICD
- [ ] StrikeType
- [ ] Hitboxes
- [ ] Attack durability
- [ ] Particles
- [ ] Frames
- [ ] Update documentation

Weapon PR checklist:

- [ ] New weapon package
- [ ] Config in weapon package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Weapon key
- [ ] Shortcuts for weapon key
- [ ] Add weapon package to imports
- [ ] Weapon curve
- [ ] Weapon passive
- [ ] Update documentation

Artifact PR checklist:

- [ ] New artifact package
- [ ] Config in artifacts package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Artifact key
- [ ] Shortcuts for artifact key
- [ ] Add artifact package to imports
- [ ] 2pc
- [ ] 4pc
- [ ] Update documentation
```
</details>


# Git/Github Quick Reference Guide
For those who are new to git/github

```git checkout -b newbranchname``` creates a new branch from your current branch
If you have committed code, but upon finishing your feature, the main branch has progressed, you are encouraged to rebase it to ensure it still works. 
Please reach out for help if you are not sure how to do this step, the following steps can be dangerous and you can lose your work if not done correctly.

To rebase your branch you will need to run the command
```
git rebase --onto <newparent> <oldparent>
git push -f
```
Where new parent is the commitment hash of the newest commit on the main branch and old parent is the commitment hash of the oldest common commitment between your feature branch and the main branch.

# Local Testing/Building
0. Create a Config file
1. Navigate to ```./gcsim/cmd/gcsim```
2. Run ```go build``` to build the executable and then feed your config file in e.g. ```./gcsim.exe -c config.txt -sample config -gz``` OR run ```go run . --c config.txt -sample config -gz``` 
3. Upload the generated sample file to the [Sample page](https://gcsim.app/sample/upload) to confirm everything is working accordingly, and optionally share the sample file in discord for debugging help.

Commit message:

add go linting (#1705)
* add linters and vscode settings from srsim
- all linters initially disabled

* adjust lint to exclude wasm cli
- syscall/js is not available in every build env

* format vscode settings

* enable gosimple linter

* enable govet linter

* enable ineffassign linter

* delete scripts that are not needed

* enable staticcheck linter

* enable typecheck linter

* add .gitattributes for linting just in case

* add gofmt linter

* add goimports linter

* add stylecheck linter
- ignore Id -> ID issue

* add gocritic linter

* add whitespace linter

* add nolintlint linter

* add errname linter

* add nonamedreturns linter

* add revive linter

* add tagalign linter

* add tagliatelle linter

* add nestif linter

* add asasalint linter

* add bidichk linter

* add unused linter

* add dogsled linter

* add errorlint linter

* add errchkjson linter

* add exportloopref linter

* add makezero linter

* add nilerr linter

* add nakedret linter

* add wastedassign linter

* add unparam linter
- fix dori aftersales not proccing at all
- fix dori aftersales falsely saying it uses travel

* add unconvert linter

* add goconst linter

* add predeclared linter

* add reassign linter

* add musttag linter

* add gocheckcompilerdirectives linter

* add gomodguard linter

* add mirror linter

* add tenv linter

* add tparallel linter

* add usestdlibvars linter

* adjust whitespace in linter config

* increase linter timeout

* use same go version during linting as in test

* try using latest golangci-lint version

* fix gocritic copying rule unintentional shadowing

* fix eval bug introduced by gocritic

* fix icd not working after nestif changes

* fix wrong hitlag parsing change via goconst

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

If you would like to contribute code to this project, please follow these pull request guidelines:

0. (Optional but encouraged) Find at least one maintainer interested in your PR.
1. Fork the project.
2. Create a branch specifically for the feature you are contributing.
3. (Optional but encouraged) Rebase your branch as needed. Please see quick reference if you are new to git.
4. After you are happy with your work, please make sure to submit a Pull Request from the feature branch. You are heavily discouraged from making pull requests from your main branch, because we may not be able to get to your PR before you make new changes to your PR.

Character PR checklist:

- [ ] New character package
- [ ] Config in character package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Character key
- [ ] Shortcuts for character key
- [ ] Add Character package to imports
- [ ] Character talent stats
- [ ] Character curve
- [ ] Normal Attack
- [ ] Skill
- [ ] Burst
- [ ] A1
- [ ] A4
- [ ] C0
- [ ] C1
- [ ] C2
- [ ] C3
- [ ] C4
- [ ] C5
- [ ] C6
- [ ] Other necessary talents (custom dash/jump, low/high plunge, ...)
- [ ] Hitlag
- [ ] ICD
- [ ] StrikeType
- [ ] Hitboxes
- [ ] Attack durability
- [ ] Particles
- [ ] Frames
- [ ] Update documentation

Weapon PR checklist:

- [ ] New weapon package
- [ ] Config in weapon package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Weapon key
- [ ] Shortcuts for weapon key
- [ ] Add weapon package to imports
- [ ] Weapon curve
- [ ] Weapon passive (might include an attack)
- [ ] Update documentation

Artifact PR checklist:

- [ ] New artifact package
- [ ] Config in artifacts package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Artifact key
- [ ] Shortcuts for artifact key
- [ ] Add artifact package to imports
- [ ] 2pc
- [ ] 4pc
- [ ] Update documentation

Please try to be explicit about what is complete or incomplete.

Items may be omitted when irrelevant.

<details><summary>Click to expand copy-paste friendly version</summary>
  
```
Character PR checklist:

- [ ] New character package
- [ ] Config in character package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Character key
- [ ] Shortcuts for character key
- [ ] Add Character package to imports
- [ ] Character talent stats
- [ ] Character curve
- [ ] Normal Attack
- [ ] Charge Attack / Aimed Shot
- [ ] Skill
- [ ] Burst
- [ ] A1
- [ ] A4
- [ ] C0
- [ ] C1
- [ ] C2
- [ ] C3
- [ ] C4
- [ ] C5
- [ ] C6
- [ ] Other necessary talents (custom dash/jump, low/high plunge, ...)
- [ ] Hitlag
- [ ] ICD
- [ ] StrikeType
- [ ] Hitboxes
- [ ] Attack durability
- [ ] Particles
- [ ] Frames
- [ ] Update documentation

Weapon PR checklist:

- [ ] New weapon package
- [ ] Config in weapon package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Weapon key
- [ ] Shortcuts for weapon key
- [ ] Add weapon package to imports
- [ ] Weapon curve
- [ ] Weapon passive
- [ ] Update documentation

Artifact PR checklist:

- [ ] New artifact package
- [ ] Config in artifacts package
- [ ] Run pipeline with added config
- [ ] Artifact key
- [ ] Shortcuts for artifact key
- [ ] Add artifact package to imports
- [ ] 2pc
- [ ] 4pc
- [ ] Update documentation

````
</details>


# Git/Github Quick Reference Guide
For those who are new to git/github

```git checkout -b newbranchname``` creates a new branch from your current branch
If you have committed code, but upon finishing your feature, the main branch has progressed, you are encouraged to rebase it to ensure it still works.
Please reach out for help if you are not sure how to do this step, the following steps can be dangerous and you can lose your work if not done correctly.

To rebase your branch you will need to run the command
````

git rebase --onto <newparent> <oldparent>
git push -f

````
Where new parent is the commitment hash of the newest commit on the main branch and old parent is the commitment hash of the oldest common commitment between your feature branch and the main branch.


# Dev Environment Setup

Install the following:
- Golang v1.21+: https://go.dev/doc/install
    - Alternative: https://github.com/stefanmaric/g this will keep golang up to date and configure all the necessary paths for you
- Git: https://github.com/git-guides/install-git
- (optional) Protobuf compiler v21+: https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases
- vscode is the “officially supported” IDE for the repo: https://code.visualstudio.com/
    - Install the recommended extensions.
- golangci-lint: If using vscode, should give popup to install
    - Alternative: manual install https://golangci-lint.run/usage/install/#local-installation
    - Linters that use diffs (for example: gofmt) require [additional setup on Windows](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/issues/307#issuecomment-1001301930) (This assumes you already installed Git for Windows!):
        - Open PowerShell as Administrator
        - execute the following command: setx /M PATH "$($env:path);C:\Program Files\git\usr\bin"
        - Restart VS Code if it is currently open for the changes to take effect.

# Local Testing/Building
0. Create a Config file
1. Navigate to ```./gcsim/cmd/gcsim```
2. Run ```go build``` to build the executable and then feed your config file in e.g. ```./gcsim.exe -c config.txt -sample config -gz``` OR run ```go run . --c config.txt -sample config -gz```
3. Upload the generated sample file to the [Sample page](https://gcsim.app/sample/upload) to confirm everything is working accordingly, and optionally share the sample file in discord for debugging help.
````
