ui/packages/docs/docs/reference/system_functions.md, before:

---
title: System Functions
sidebar_position: 4
---

The following system functions are available:

## print

```
print(arg1, arg2, arg3, ...);
```

- The `print` command allows the user to print any arbitrary expression. 
- The printed message can be viewed in the Sample tab of the viewer under the `user` log category. 
- There is no limit on the number of arguments that can be passed to `print`.
- `print` will always evaluate to 0.

:::info
As an exception, `print` can take both number and string as arguments. 
The following is valid:
```
print("this is a number: ", 1); // note the space after the :
```
`print` will evaluate each argument and concatenate them all into one string, then displaying it on the debug.
:::

:::info
Note that any valid expression that evaluates into a number can also be printed. For example:
```
print("bennett's current energy is: ", .bennett.energy);
```
:::

## sleep/wait

:::caution
The syntax `wait(arg)`, while valid, is deprecated in favour of `sleep(arg)`
:::

```
sleep(arg);
wait(arg); //deprecated, use sleep(arg)
```

- `sleep` is a special function that will ask gcsim to wait a number of frames. 
- `sleep` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number and represents the number of frames the simulator will wait for.
:::

:::caution
Due to how gcsim handles actions, the current implementation of `sleep` is not intuitive when trying to extend the duration of actions.
Please use `delay` for this purpose instead.

Example:
```
keqing attack;  // Keqing N1
sleep(2);       // sleeps for 2 frames
keqing attack;  // Keqing N2
```

Many users would expect that gcsim sleeps for 2 frames *after* Keqing's N1 action ends. 
This is not how `sleep` works.
`sleep` makes the sim sleep for 2 frames *after* Keqing's N1 action has reached its specified `CanQueueAfter` value. 
The duration of `sleep` counts towards the action length.

- expected: 
    - N1 starts
    - N1 ends after 15 frames
    - gcsim sleeps for 2 frames 
    - N2 starts after a total of 15 + 2 = 17 frames
- reality: 
    - N1 starts
    - N1 `CanQueueAfter` is reached after 11 frames
    - gcsim sleeps for 2 frames
    - now there are 15 - (11 + 2) = 2 frames left in the N1 animation
    - N1 continues for 2 more frames until the N1 animation is over
    - N2 starts after a total of 11 + 2 + 2 = 15 frames

To make gcsim sleep for 1 frame after Keqing's N1 action ends, the user would have to insert a `sleep(5);`.
:::

## delay

```
delay(arg);
```

- `delay` is a special function that will ask gcsim to delay the start of the following action by a number of frames. 
- `delay` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number and represents the number of frames the simulator will wait for.
:::

:::caution
`delay` is executed before the sim checks if the next action is ready. 

Example:
```
keqing burst;
delay(5);
keqing burst;
```

In this case, the sim would do the following:
- Keqing's 1st Burst is executed
- gcsim executes a `delay` for 5 frames at the end of the previous action
- Once the delay is over, gcsim checks if Keqing's 2nd Burst can be executed
- Since there is not enough energy, the sim will be stuck waiting for energy
- After enough particles were collected from energy drops, Keqing's 2nd Burst is executed
:::

:::caution
If the active character is affected by hitlag during the execution of `delay`, then it will last longer than specified.

Example:
```
noelle skill;
sleep(700);
delay(50);
noelle attack;
```

This example uses C4 Noelle to show a source of hitlag that can occur during `delay`.
The `sleep` is used so that the C4 shield explosion happens during `delay`.

- Noelle's Skill is executed
- gcsim will sleep for 700 frames after the `CanQueueAfter` of the previous action 
- gcsim starts executing a `delay` that should last 50 frames
- A few frames after `delay` starts, C4 Noelle applies 13 frames of hitlag
- Noelle's Attack is executed 50 + 13 = 63 frames after the start of `delay`
:::


## f

```
f();
```

`f` is function that takes no argument and will evaluate to the current frame number gcsim is on.

## rand

```
rand();
```

`rand` evaluates to an uniformly distributed random number between 0 and 1.

## randnorm

```
randnorm();
```

`randnorm` evaluates to a normally distributed random number with mean 0 and std dev of 1.

## type

```
type(arg);
```

`type` evaluates to the name of the gcsl type of `arg`.

## execute_action

```
execute_action(char, action, params);
```

`execute_action` evaluates to null and is used by the sim to execute actions.
The intent behind exposing this is to allow for users to override this function for implementing functions that run before each action.

The main example for this is adding (random) frame delays before each action:
```
fn rand_delay(mean, stddev) {
    let del = randnorm() * stddev + mean;
    if del > (mean + mean) {
        del = mean + mean;
    }
    delay(del);
}

let prev_char_id = -1;
let prev_action_id = -1;

let _execute_action = execute_action;
fn execute_action(char_id number, action_id number, p map) {
    print(prev_char_id, " ", prev_action_id, " ", char_id, " ", action_id);

    if action_id == .action.swap {
        # add delay before swap
        rand_delay(12, 3);
    } else if prev_action_id == .action.attack && action_id != .action.attack && action_id != .action.charge {
        # add delay after attack, but only if not followed by another attack or charge
        rand_delay(3, 1);
    } else if prev_action_id != .action.attack {
        # add delay to everything else
        rand_delay(3, 1);
    }

    prev_char_id = char_id;
    prev_action_id = action_id;
    return _execute_action(char_id, action_id, p);
}
```

:::danger
- `char` and `action` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number. 
- `params` must be a map or an expression that evaluates to a map.
:::

## set_particle_delay

```
set_particle_delay(arg1, arg2);
```

- `set_particle_delay` will set the default particle delay for the character supplied in `arg1` to the value in `arg2`. 
- If `arg2` evaluates to a number that is less than 0, 0 will be used.
- `set_particle_delay` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg1` must be a string (wrapped in double quotes) and `arg2` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number. 
:::

:::info
Example:
```
set_particle_delay("xingqiu", 100);
```
:::

## set_default_target

```
set_default_target(arg);
```

- `set_default_target` will set the default target to the index supplied by `arg`. 
- `set_default_target` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number. 
:::

:::danger
If `arg` is an invalid target (i.e. 3 when there are only 2 targets), then gcsim will exit with an error.
:::

:::info
For example, if there are 2 targets, then `set_default_target(2)` will set the default target to the 2nd one. 
Note that it starts at 1 and not 0 because 0 is a special case (target 0 represents the player).
:::

## set_player_pos

```
set_player_pos(x, y);
```

- `set_player_pos` will set the player's current position to the supplied `x` and `y` coordinate. 
- `set_player_pos` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`x` and `y` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## set_target_pos

```
set_target_pos(arg, x, y);
```

- `set_target_pos` will set the target with index `arg` to the supplied `x` and `y` coordinates. 
- `set_target_pos` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
All arguments must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

:::danger
If `arg` is an invalid target (i.e. 3 when there are only 2 targets), then gcsim will exit with an error.
:::

## kill_target

```
kill_target(arg);
```

- `kill_target` will kill the target with index `arg`.
- `kill_target` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

:::danger
If `arg` is an invalid target (i.e. 3 when there are only 2 targets), then gcsim will exit with an error.
:::

## sin

```
sin(arg);
```

`sin` evaluates to the sine of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## cos

```
cos(arg);
```

`cos` evaluates to the cosine of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## asin

```
asin(arg);
```

`asin` evaluates to the arcsine of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## acos

```
acos(arg);
```

`acos` evaluates to the arccos of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## set_on_tick

```nginx
set_on_tick(func);
```

`set_on_tick` evaluates to null and is a way to make the sim execute a user-defined function every frame.

In the following example, the player's stamina will be printed every frame:
```
fn stam() {
    print(.stam);
}
set_on_tick(stam);
```

:::danger
`func` must be a function or an expression that evaluates to a function.
:::

Commit message:

mark some system funcs as experimental in docs (#1795)

ui/packages/docs/docs/reference/system_functions.md, after:

---
title: System Functions
sidebar_position: 4
---

The following system functions are available:

## print

```
print(arg1, arg2, arg3, ...);
```

- The `print` command allows the user to print any arbitrary expression. 
- The printed message can be viewed in the Sample tab of the viewer under the `user` log category. 
- There is no limit on the number of arguments that can be passed to `print`.
- `print` will always evaluate to 0.

:::info
As an exception, `print` can take both number and string as arguments. 
The following is valid:
```
print("this is a number: ", 1); // note the space after the :
```
`print` will evaluate each argument and concatenate them all into one string, then displaying it on the debug.
:::

:::info
Note that any valid expression that evaluates into a number can also be printed. For example:
```
print("bennett's current energy is: ", .bennett.energy);
```
:::

## sleep/wait

:::caution
The syntax `wait(arg)`, while valid, is deprecated in favour of `sleep(arg)`
:::

```
sleep(arg);
wait(arg); //deprecated, use sleep(arg)
```

- `sleep` is a special function that will ask gcsim to wait a number of frames. 
- `sleep` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number and represents the number of frames the simulator will wait for.
:::

:::caution
Due to how gcsim handles actions, the current implementation of `sleep` is not intuitive when trying to extend the duration of actions.
Please use `delay` for this purpose instead.

Example:
```
keqing attack;  // Keqing N1
sleep(2);       // sleeps for 2 frames
keqing attack;  // Keqing N2
```

Many users would expect that gcsim sleeps for 2 frames *after* Keqing's N1 action ends. 
This is not how `sleep` works.
`sleep` makes the sim sleep for 2 frames *after* Keqing's N1 action has reached its specified `CanQueueAfter` value. 
The duration of `sleep` counts towards the action length.

- expected: 
    - N1 starts
    - N1 ends after 15 frames
    - gcsim sleeps for 2 frames 
    - N2 starts after a total of 15 + 2 = 17 frames
- reality: 
    - N1 starts
    - N1 `CanQueueAfter` is reached after 11 frames
    - gcsim sleeps for 2 frames
    - now there are 15 - (11 + 2) = 2 frames left in the N1 animation
    - N1 continues for 2 more frames until the N1 animation is over
    - N2 starts after a total of 11 + 2 + 2 = 15 frames

To make gcsim sleep for 1 frame after Keqing's N1 action ends, the user would have to insert a `sleep(5);`.
:::

## delay

```
delay(arg);
```

- `delay` is a special function that will ask gcsim to delay the start of the following action by a number of frames. 
- `delay` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number and represents the number of frames the simulator will wait for.
:::

:::caution
`delay` is executed before the sim checks if the next action is ready. 

Example:
```
keqing burst;
delay(5);
keqing burst;
```

In this case, the sim would do the following:
- Keqing's 1st Burst is executed
- gcsim executes a `delay` for 5 frames at the end of the previous action
- Once the delay is over, gcsim checks if Keqing's 2nd Burst can be executed
- Since there is not enough energy, the sim will be stuck waiting for energy
- After enough particles were collected from energy drops, Keqing's 2nd Burst is executed
:::

:::caution
If the active character is affected by hitlag during the execution of `delay`, then it will last longer than specified.

Example:
```
noelle skill;
sleep(700);
delay(50);
noelle attack;
```

This example uses C4 Noelle to show a source of hitlag that can occur during `delay`.
The `sleep` is used so that the C4 shield explosion happens during `delay`.

- Noelle's Skill is executed
- gcsim will sleep for 700 frames after the `CanQueueAfter` of the previous action 
- gcsim starts executing a `delay` that should last 50 frames
- A few frames after `delay` starts, C4 Noelle applies 13 frames of hitlag
- Noelle's Attack is executed 50 + 13 = 63 frames after the start of `delay`
:::


## f

```
f();
```

`f` is function that takes no argument and will evaluate to the current frame number gcsim is on.

## rand

```
rand();
```

`rand` evaluates to an uniformly distributed random number between 0 and 1.

## randnorm

```
randnorm();
```

`randnorm` evaluates to a normally distributed random number with mean 0 and std dev of 1.

## type

```
type(arg);
```

`type` evaluates to the name of the gcsl type of `arg`.

## execute_action

:::danger
**THIS FUNCTION IS EXPERIMENTAL AND SUBJECT TO CHANGE.**

**USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.**
:::

```
execute_action(char, action, params);
```

`execute_action` evaluates to null and is used by the sim to execute actions.
The intent behind this system function is to allow for proper typing/functional support in the future.
It being exposed here is an unintended side effect which can be used to implement a function that runs before every action.


:::danger
The following example is subject to breaking in the future!
:::

With that in mind it is possible to add (random) frame delays before each action:
```
fn rand_delay(mean, stddev) {
    let del = randnorm() * stddev + mean;
    if del > (mean + mean) {
        del = mean + mean;
    }
    delay(del);
}

let prev_char_id = -1;
let prev_action_id = -1;

let _execute_action = execute_action;
fn execute_action(char_id number, action_id number, p map) {
    print(prev_char_id, " ", prev_action_id, " ", char_id, " ", action_id);

    if action_id == .action.swap {
        # add delay before swap
        rand_delay(12, 3);
    } else if prev_action_id == .action.attack && action_id != .action.attack && action_id != .action.charge {
        # add delay after attack, but only if not followed by another attack or charge
        rand_delay(3, 1);
    } else if prev_action_id != .action.attack {
        # add delay to everything else
        rand_delay(3, 1);
    }

    prev_char_id = char_id;
    prev_action_id = action_id;
    return _execute_action(char_id, action_id, p);
}
```

:::danger
- `char` and `action` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number. 
- `params` must be a map or an expression that evaluates to a map.
:::

## set_particle_delay

```
set_particle_delay(arg1, arg2);
```

- `set_particle_delay` will set the default particle delay for the character supplied in `arg1` to the value in `arg2`. 
- If `arg2` evaluates to a number that is less than 0, 0 will be used.
- `set_particle_delay` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg1` must be a string (wrapped in double quotes) and `arg2` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number. 
:::

:::info
Example:
```
set_particle_delay("xingqiu", 100);
```
:::

## set_default_target

```
set_default_target(arg);
```

- `set_default_target` will set the default target to the index supplied by `arg`. 
- `set_default_target` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number. 
:::

:::danger
If `arg` is an invalid target (i.e. 3 when there are only 2 targets), then gcsim will exit with an error.
:::

:::info
For example, if there are 2 targets, then `set_default_target(2)` will set the default target to the 2nd one. 
Note that it starts at 1 and not 0 because 0 is a special case (target 0 represents the player).
:::

## set_player_pos

```
set_player_pos(x, y);
```

- `set_player_pos` will set the player's current position to the supplied `x` and `y` coordinate. 
- `set_player_pos` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`x` and `y` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## set_target_pos

```
set_target_pos(arg, x, y);
```

- `set_target_pos` will set the target with index `arg` to the supplied `x` and `y` coordinates. 
- `set_target_pos` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
All arguments must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

:::danger
If `arg` is an invalid target (i.e. 3 when there are only 2 targets), then gcsim will exit with an error.
:::

## kill_target

```
kill_target(arg);
```

- `kill_target` will kill the target with index `arg`.
- `kill_target` will always evaluate to 0.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

:::danger
If `arg` is an invalid target (i.e. 3 when there are only 2 targets), then gcsim will exit with an error.
:::

## sin

```
sin(arg);
```

`sin` evaluates to the sine of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## cos

```
cos(arg);
```

`cos` evaluates to the cosine of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## asin

```
asin(arg);
```

`asin` evaluates to the arcsine of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## acos

```
acos(arg);
```

`acos` evaluates to the arccos of the given `arg`.

:::danger
`arg` must be a number or an expression that evaluates to a number.
:::

## set_on_tick

:::danger
**THIS FUNCTION IS EXPERIMENTAL AND SUBJECT TO CHANGE.**

**USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.**
:::

```
set_on_tick(func);
```

`set_on_tick` evaluates to null and is a way to make the sim execute a user-defined function every frame.

In the following example, the player's stamina will be printed every frame:
```
fn stam() {
    print(.stam);
}
set_on_tick(stam);
```

:::danger
`func` must be a function or an expression that evaluates to a function.
:::
